#
# This file is autogenerated by pip-compile with Python 3.12
# by the following command:
#
#    pip-compile requirements.in
#
babel==2.17.0
    # via mkdocs-material
backrefs==5.8
    # via mkdocs-material
beautifulsoup4==4.13.3
    # via
    #   mkdocs-htmlproofer-plugin
    #   mkdocs-unused-files
certifi==2025.1.31
    # via requests
charset-normalizer==3.4.1
    # via requests
click==8.1.8
    # via mkdocs
colorama==0.4.6
    # via mkdocs-material
ghp-import==2.1.0
    # via mkdocs
idna==3.10
    # via requests
jinja2==3.1.6
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   mkdocs
    #   mkdocs-material
markdown==3.7
    # via
    #   mkdocs
    #   mkdocs-htmlproofer-plugin
    #   mkdocs-material
    #   pymdown-extensions
markupsafe==3.0.2
    # via
    #   jinja2
    #   mkdocs
mergedeep==1.3.4
    # via
    #   mkdocs
    #   mkdocs-get-deps
mkdocs==1.6.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   mkdocs-htmlproofer-plugin
    #   mkdocs-material
    #   mkdocs-redirects
    #   mkdocs-unused-files
mkdocs-get-deps==0.2.0
    # via mkdocs
mkdocs-htmlproofer-plugin==1.3.0
    # via -r requirements.in
mkdocs-material==9.6.7
    # via -r requirements.in
mkdocs-material-extensions==1.3.1
    # via mkdocs-material
mkdocs-redirects==1.2.2
    # via -r requirements.in
mkdocs-unused-files==0.2.0
    # via -r requirements.in
packaging==24.2
    # via mkdocs
paginate==0.5.7
    # via mkdocs-material
pathspec==0.12.1
    # via mkdocs
platformdirs==4.3.6
    # via mkdocs-get-deps
pygments==2.19.1
    # via mkdocs-material
pymdown-extensions==10.14.3
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   mkdocs-material
python-dateutil==2.9.0.post0
    # via ghp-import
pyyaml==6.0.2
    # via
    #   mkdocs
    #   mkdocs-get-deps
    #   pymdown-extensions
    #   pyyaml-env-tag
pyyaml-env-tag==0.1
    # via mkdocs
requests==2.32.3
    # via
    #   mkdocs-htmlproofer-plugin
    #   mkdocs-material
six==1.17.0
    # via python-dateutil
soupsieve==2.6
    # via beautifulsoup4
typing-extensions==4.12.2
    # via beautifulsoup4
urllib3==2.3.0
    # via requests
watchdog==6.0.0
    # via mkdocs
