# Step 2: Compatible iPhone or iPod touch

!!!danger "Time Estimate" _ 5 minutes, if already have iOS 12.2 or newer _ 20
minutes, if need to update your compatible device to iOS 12.2 or newer _ 10
minutes, if you need to order a device from Apple website _ 0 minutes, if you
own an Android and won't buy Apple products...that's fine, too.

!!!info "Summary" _ Check your iOS version and make sure you have 12.2 minimum.
_ Do not use any of the beta iOS versions. (Don't worry...if you don't know what
that means, then you aren't using one.) \* If using Dexcom CGM, your Looping
iPhone/iPod touch will need the Dexcom app installed on it in order to Loop
without an internet connection.

!!!warning "FAQs" _ **"Can I use an android?"** No. _ **"But why not?"** Because
Loop is written in Apple's Swift language, which does not compile onto Android
operating systems. _ **"Can I use an iPad?"** No. iPads do not support Apple
Health and that is an important part of Loop's inner workings. _ **"Does my
iPhone need cell plan?"** No. Loop will work without an internet
connection...however you will not have Dexcom Follow data or Nightscout data if
you choose to use a device that doesn't have an internet connection. In other
words Loop will work, but remotely watching followers won't see Looping data
unless the Loop device has an internet connection.

## iOS check

Loop is compatible with iPhone and iPod touch devices that can run iOS 12.2 or
newer. Therefore, compatible devices include:

- iPhone X, XS, XR, XS Max

- iPhone 8, 8+

- iPhone 7, 7+

- iPhone 6, 6+, 6s, 6s+

- iPhone SE

- iPhone 5s

- iPod Touch, 6th generation or newer

## iOS 13 update

On September 19, 2019, iOS 13 will be released. The iPhone 5s, 6, 6+ models will
not be able to update to iOS 13. This does not pose a problem currently. You can
still build Loop. HOWEVER, there are upcoming Loop changes that will require
users to have iOS 13 on their devices. There is no timeframe for when these Loop
changes will be coming, but just be aware that we do anticipate all Loopers will
need to be using iOS 13 in the future if they want the new versions of Loop.

Until then, you can use iOS 12.2 (or newer through iOS 13) without issue.
Updating to iOS 13 is optional as far as Loop is concerned. Your Loop app on
your phone will continue to run fine if you choose to update to iOS 13. It will
also continue to run fine if you do not update to iOS 13.

Your phone's iOS version can be found under the Settings app, General, About as
shown below.

<p align="center">
<img src="https://loopkit.github.io/loopdocs/build/img/ios.jpg" width="300">
</p>

## Next Step: Compatible Pump

Now you are ready to move onto Step 3 to check if you have a
[Compatible pump](https://loopkit.github.io/loopdocs/build/step3/).
