# Nightscout Issues

The free Nightscout we use also depends on a free database from mLab. The free
database only has so much room...500 MB to be specific. After a period of time
(it will vary, but usually on the order of months), your mLab database could
reach its free limits. When that happens, your NS site may stop showing data
properly. For example, you may notice your Share Bridge will not pull data and
your site will be “stale”.

The good news? Loop can still run just fine until you repair your mLab database.
The bad news? You just won’t be able to remotely monitor Loop through NS until
you clear up some storage space in mLab.

!!! info "" These steps **WILL BE NEEDED BY EVERYONE AT SOME POINT IN
TIME**...so please don't ignore this troubleshooting. If you see anything
suddenly strange about your NS site after it had been working fine, start with
these steps below.

## mLab Cleanup

There are two steps to getting your Nightscout site running again. You will need
to do both steps. The first step clears out some space in your database. The
second steps consolidates the remaining data into a more compact space, and
therefore makes the data take up less room overall in your database. You need to
do both steps to help keep your NS humming along.

## Step 1: Delete Data

Go to your Nightscout site's settings (the three horizontal bars in the upper
right of your Nightscout site) and open your Admin Tools for the site. Click on
the buttons to "Delete all documents" in your Clean Mongo status database
section of the Admin Tools. For good measure, also click on the buttons for
removing future items as well.

<p align="center">
<img src="../img/ns_clean.jpeg" width="250">
</p>

## Step 2: Repair Database

Now that you cleared out some database space, we can now make the database more
efficient by "repairing" the database.

To begin the repair process, click on the mlab link in your Heroku site control
panel.

<p align="center">
<img src="../img/mlab_link.jpg" width="750">
</p>

Then click on the `Tools` tab in the screen that opens. Click on the `commands`
button and then select the `repairDatabase` from the dropdown menu of available
commands. At the bottom of the screen, select the `Run Command` button.

<p align="center">
<img src="../img/mlab_compact2.png" width="650">
</p>

After a short time, you should get a return message of "ok" at the bottom of the
command menu box. If you failed to clear out your Mongo status database before
running this command, you will likely not get a successful repair and instead
your pointer wheel will just keep spinning. Make sure you first clean out the
database section as described above with your Nightscout Admin Tools.

You can verify that your database housekeeping was successful by returning to
your NS site and waiting for the next Loop upload. You should see all your
information back in with the next Loop run.
