# Branch FAQs

This page is mostly suited to people who have built the app once already and
then are coming back to update. In the course of updating, you may be wondering
about the different branches, what the differences are, and such...so let's try
to answer some of those questions as best we can.

## What are all these branches?

Yes, there are a lot of "branches" in Loop talk but the concept is simple. I'll
use an analogy to help. Basically, they are all slightly different versions of
Loop...kind of like different edits of the same book.

To really understand what branches are, we should probably explain a little more
about Loop's code and how development works.

Loop developers' own an account in GitHub called
[LoopKit](https://github.com/LoopKit). Within that account, the developers have
several "repositories" that support Loop in particular. A repository is like a
book...let's think of it like a cookbook for now. Within the LoopKit account,
there are repositories for Loop itself, LoopDocs, and various other supporting
"frameworks" that are helper repositories for Loop to build correctly. For
example, Loop's repo has a lot of the info about the app itself; the outward
facing things that you interact with. How information is put to you and taken in
from you...that's in Loop repository code. But, there's more than just a user
interface for Loop. Loop has to do a lot of complex work like Bluetooth
communications, algorithm math, pump communications, etc. The Loop app has help
from frameworks to do those other parts. CGMBLEkit for some of the transmitter
parts of Loop, RileyLink_ios for the pump managers (talking to the pumps and
decoding their information), LoopKit for the algorithm about carbs and insulin
curves, etc.

When you build Loop, in the background, Loop pulls those other frameworks (7 in
total) into the build process using "Carthage". Carthage is like a personal
shopper. You give it a shopping list (the cartfile in Loop code is that shopping
list) and it goes and fetches that for you during the build process. Sometimes
your computer has an old shopping list...and that can cause build errors. Hence
the "carthage update" fix in the Build Errors page...that command updates the
shopping list to get the right versions of those frameworks.

<p align="center">
<img src="../img/loopkit.png" width="650">
</p>

Anyways...so now you know about the general structure of Loop and LoopKit in
Github. Now we can discuss Loop itself a little deeper.

So let's imagine Loop as a cookbook. The developers are the authors/chefs of the
recipes (code) in the cookbook. The authors spend countless hours testing new
recipes, taste testing, documenting improvements. They send the drafts to the
editor, who makes suggestions and eventually the cookbook is finalized. There
are no grammar issues, no typos, the photos are beautiful and the recipes are
yummy. They publish the book and you see a gorgeous final product on the
shelves. That is called a "release" and it is the master branch. This book has
been well-tested and is super stable. Everytime you cook with those recipes, you
know exactly what you're getting and lots of people have had a chance before you
to make sure that it all tastes good. Master branch is stable and tested.

But then...the chefs/developers go on a trip. They are inspired by new cuisine
and want to add new recipes to the old cookbook. (Things like omnipod support
and overrides are new "recipes" that were developed since the last master
release, for example.) But, the process for developing a recipe is arduous. Lots
of trial and error involved. Lots of tweaking ingredients (code). The editors
try out the new recipes and offer feedback (similar to the
[Issues List in GitHub](https://github.com/LoopKit/Loop/issues)). While the
recipes are being developed, they have a version of the old cookbook that gets
marked up...edited in pencil a lot. Scribbles and notes in the side. Revisions
happen frequently, because that's what testing new recipes is all about. These
marked-up versions of the cookbook are called "dev" branch. Short for
"development" branch. Like the name sounds...this is where new developments are
happening, new recipes and tweaks.

After much testing and tweaking, eventually the recipes get the flavors right
(bugs in code are squashed) and enough people have provided feedback and careful
observations of results...that the book goes to the publishing house for the
next printing. The cookbook is republished with an updated edition number and
new recipes are highlighted. When this happens in Loop, Loop's master branch is
updated with the new features coming from dev (aka, "dev branch is merged into
master branch"). When that happens, master branch gets another "release" version
(you can see release history [here](https://github.com/LoopKit/Loop/releases))
and for that one day...dev and master are exactly the same. They stay the same
until the Loop developers start working on the next batch of improvements, could
be the next hour even or days later, but the process begins again. The
developers will start editing the code again and dropping those edits in dev
branch for further development.

## So what was/is Omnipod-testing branch?

Omnipod Loop development testing (not talking about the actual hacking work that
preceeded that) was done by a smaller group of people privately for months and
months before public release of the omnipod-testing branch. This smaller group
of people (several dozen) were actively watching their Omnipod Loops and
capturing bug reports. There was a lot of work put in by the testers and Pete
Schwamb (Loop Developer) to get the code fairly stable and reliable.

When the code got to a stable, reliable state and was ready for a larger
audience, omnipod-testing branch was made available as a "public testing"
branch. This branch is slightly different than a dev branch. What it means is
that it was pretty well tested, but not necessarily going to be perfect for
everyone right away. There were expectations that some user-interface requests
might be asked for after having a wider audience of users (bolus beeps is a good
example of that kind of testing outcome).

Also, omnipod-testing branch was not going to undergo a lot of active revisions
to it when it was released. The intent was to keep it as a fairly known,
un-changed product for people rather than a constantly changing code set...that
way if people noted a bug, it would be a more "known" code base to work to
debug.

So, omnipod-testing branch has undergone very little revision since it was first
released. In face, since its release in late April/early May 2019, there has
only been two updates; one for the newer style Dexcom G6 transmitters and one
for iOS 13 compatibility. Nothing major has been done in that branch,
intentionally. As described above, the branch is serving as a stable platform
for users and has helped catch bugs as a result of NOT being changed constantly.

## What is the future of omnipod-testing branch? Will it be updated?

No. Omnipod-testing branch is not going to be "updated" in the way many people
are asking about. Little code fixes going in constantly will not happen. The
reasons are given above. Omnipod-testing branch was just for that...testing that
code in a static, fairly unchanged format to learn the most from it in a clean
way.

As I just mentioned, bugs have been found in omnipod-testing branch. Those bugs
are being squashed in dev branch and not in omnipod-testing branch. WHY? Because
dev branch is the place for new code testing. Like playing a game of Jenga,
changing code to squash one bug may result in unintended consequences that cause
another bug. So the playground for that kind of testing is most appropriate for
dev branch. Omnipod-testing branch is not a place to be testing bug squashes and
code changes.

When dev gets more stable and the bugs are squashed/cleaned up, eventually that
cleaned up code will be announced as a recommended replacement for
omnipod-testing branch. Don't worry...there will be LoopDocs updates, pinned
announcements in Looped and Zulipchat, instagram posts, etc. You shouldn't be
able to miss it.

## How can I stay current with what's going on in the branches?

Now we've learned that master and omnipod-testing branches really aren't
changing much. They've each had some "hot-fixes" for late-breaking things that
were needed for users in a timely fashion; the updated G6 transmitters and iOS
update compatibility...but mostly the essential core of the code remains
intentionally unchanged in those branches. ("Hot-fixes" are code changes to keep
core functions when one of the outside pieces triggered the need. Apple and
Dexcom changing their gear represent times when hot-fixes are most likely, but
do not represent a major release change. Most people will want to update their
Loop apps after a hot-fix is merged into the branch because those help ensure
your gear works as expected.)

So it's just dev branch that changes often. The developers need YOU to know that
dev is a constantly shifting, moving place. If you choose to come into a dev
branch build...you need to be aware that is what dev does...moves, shakes,
changes, and will update code frequently and unannounced in the traditional
sense that most users in Looped group or instagram would see. Developers are not
helped by people being in a dev branch if those users are mistakenly thinking of
it as a stable master branch with lots of detailed docs to go with it. People
should only use a dev branch build if they EDUCATE themselves on the
expectations and how to properly manage dev information and updates. People
using dev branch should also have regular access to a computer to be able to
rebuild quickly if a new bug/fix is identified.

If you choose to use a dev build, you can stay abreast of developments in a
number of ways...but they will all require you to do some legwork and keep
yourself informed. This is not a situation where you should expect a fancy
Loopdocs page updated regularly with current "dev updates"...that's just not the
way dev branch works.

### Watch the Loop Repo and Issues list

First, subscribe to the Loop repo's Issues list by "watching" the
[Loop repo](https://github.com/LoopKit/Loop). You can choose to watch the repo
so that you get emails when new Issues are reported. This is a good way to find
out if there's other people reporting odd behavior that you are wondering about.
If you use dev and wonder about something you are seeing in Loop, you can check
[Issues list](https://github.com/LoopKit/Loop/issues) to see if others are
noticing the same. If so, you can help by capturing information and reporting
it. Not super helpful to just say "yeah, me too..." but better if you can attach
screenshots, Issue Reports from Loop settings, and a thorough description of the
problem you are seeing. Be a part of the solution by thoughtfully providing
information to help debug.

<p align="center">
<img src="../img/watching.png" width="650">
</p>

### Subscribe to the Zulipchat channels

Second, use [Zulipchat](https://loop.zulipchat.com) forums for Loop. This forum
has several "streams" of conversions depending on interest. I highly recommend
following the #github channel if you are wanting to watch for code changes. Code
changes are called "commits" in GitHub. The #github channel will have an
automated post whenever a new commit is made and it will give a brief line
description of the commit.

<p align="center">
<img src="../img/zulipchat.png" width="650">
</p>

You can also go directly to the commit history for each of the branches if you'd
like.

<a href="https://github.com/LoopKit/Loop/commits/master">Loop master branch
commit history</a>

<a href="https://github.com/LoopKit/Loop/commits/dev">Loop dev branch commit
history</a>

<a href="https://github.com/LoopKit/Loop/commits/omnipod-testing">Loop
omnipod-testing branch commit history</a>

If you click on the commit, you can see exactly what changes to the code were
made. It's an interesting learning experience. In red are the code that is old,
in green is the updated code. The line numbers and file names of the edited code
are also there to help.

<p align="center">
<img src="../img/commit.png" width="650">
</p>

I don't expect many of you would understand exactly what the edits mean, or how
the new code might function...but I bring up the topic of commit history so that
you can use that to realize just how often dev is updated. Go ahead and look at
the number and frequency of commits in that dev branch...that is why there is no
way someone is going to keep a "loopdocs" of dev changes. It's just too much a
moving target.

### Keep checking Looped group

Third, keep watching Looped group. Major concerns/issues are brought up
there...so no harm in scrolling through and seeing what's going on there.

### Become familiar with your data sources

Another useful thing if you'll be on dev branches undergoing a lot of active
change...know how Loop works and where to look for additional information about
what you are seeing. For example, if you see an IOB value that looks odd, you
should know to look at the insulin deliveries are stored in Health app. Knowing
to pull an Issue Report when you see a problem so you can provide that if asked.
Knowing
[how to capture debugging logs if the developers ask for that kind of info](https://youtu.be/Ac4MguvUO7M)
is also a good skill.

## What are the differences in branches now?

Roughly speaking...right now (September 23nd):

- Master: No Omnipod support, only Medtronic users. Stable. No updates planned
  in near future. The next update will depend on how long dev takes to settle
  down and get some good testing showing stability.

- Omnipod-testing branch:
  [known bug for IOB tracking](https://github.com/LoopKit/Loop/issues/1034) that
  has been discussed a lot in Looped group (go ahead and search group if you
  want to read up on it) for Pod users. The fix for this bug has been
  implemented in dev branch...the fix is NOT in omnipod-testing branch for
  reasons discussed above. Jenga.

- Dev: Dev branch has a fix for the IOB tracking for Pod users. Dev branch also
  has new features that have not previously been a part of mainline Loop
  branches...overrides and Nightscout profile automatic updating. These two
  features are new and improved versions of the ones previously a part of JoJo
  branches (if you've tried those).

  Dev branches also has some known bugs still being addressed. For example, when
  the Loop cancels a temp basal to revert back to scheduled basals...the
  timestamp below the HUD's temp basal indicator goes back to the time when Loop
  was first opened. When the next temp basal is set, the timestamp operates
  properly again. Little stuff like that comes up a lot in dev...and you'll need
  to do your homework to read up on known issues please. Don't assume that dev
  branch is supposed to be glitch free...instead look at issues list, scroll
  through recent posts in Zulipchat and see if others have already
  noted/discussed the same.

## Should I update to dev branch?

You mean after all that you can't answer that question yourself? Really?

Ask yourself some questions. Are you the type that will have access to a
computer? Be willing to update more frequently if needed? Be willing to do some
leg work to stay current with possible reported issues? Be willing to watch a
little closer after each time you update your Loop app to make sure no code
regressions or new bugs came in with the update? If you can't commit to those
things, then you should stay on master or omnipod-testing for awhile longer
until dev settles down a bit.

## Is dev branch always changing frequently?

Sometimes yes, sometimes no. Right now we just happen to be in a time of a lot
of changes. Pod updates, insulin tracking code changes (which get into the very
core of Loop code), Nightscout integration updates, iOS updates...there's just a
lot going on right now.

## Will JoJo branch be updated? Does it have "a fix"?

JoJo branches are my (me, Katie) personal-use branches that incorporated changes
I found useful for our Looping. Those are changes that were pieced together from
various sources in the open source community. Other people who coded up
particular changes that benefitted themselves and I found were useful, too. What
JoJo was not designed to be is a branch that bi-forcated users and complicated
which branch people selected. The unintended consequence of sharing my personal
branches over time is that confusion about branches has grown...and I dont'
enjoy that. I am working with Pete to get the features in my personal branches
merged/improved into mainline Loop.

Dev branch already has automatic Nightscout profile updating now...and that is a
huge feature that I really grew to depend on. It is nice to verify (without
asking) that my daughter (or a caregiver) successfully edited a basal rate or
setting the way I'd suggested when adjustments were needed during a school day.

Dev branch also has overrides included now, in a way that improves upon the
original version used in JoJo. Michael Pangburn is the author of that AMAZING
set of features and I'll be forever in debt to him for the work he's put into
overrides. Those have been a super tool to add to Loop and I'm so happy to see
them in dev branch.

Dev branch is also hopefully getting remote overrides...not sure when, but my
fingers are crossed.

The Integral Retrospective Correction is not in dev branch and may/may not be in
the future (I don't know). We only used IRC for a short period of time and I
think that it may be undergoing some code revision...so it may be "dormant" for
a bit in the near future. Take a deep breath...you will be fine if IRC is
dormant.

There are other minor things in Jojo that I expect could get fixed in dev (meter
BG uploading to NS for Medtronic Loopers). Insulin delay will probably not be
going into dev and instead there's some talk in the development channels about
carb modelling improvements which would better address the reason insulin delay
was helpful (to the extent it helped improve bolus amounts up-front). Finally,
the bolusing below suspend threshold is a one-line code customization that I
expect people could do on their own if it is added to LoopDocs.

So...in short...NO. JoJo will not be updated with any new code. Instead, JoJo
will go into retirement and dev branch (and eventually master branch) will have
all you'd need...the IOB tracking fix, overrides, NS profile updating, etc.

We have been running dev branch live on Anna (my daughter) for several weeks now
on both Pods and Medtronic (she's been going between the two), with regular
updates to get new code and test/watch.

The girl who maintains JoJo branches isn't even using JoJo branches. I think
that says something, don't you?
