# iOS 13 FAQs

Every time a new iOS release comes out...there's loads of questions and a flurry
of activity. To help answer these questions, this page will be here short term
to help answer these FAQs.

## Should I update to iOS 13?

That is a question that you should answer separate from Loop considerations. New
iOS releases often have bugs in them, so I tend to avoid updating my daughter's
phone for a bit. Instead, I update my phone and test things out first. Dexcom's
app could have problems even...who knows. But, I certainly want to get a chance
to kick-the-tires (or watch other people kick tires) for a bit before I try new
iOS releases. Once I see things are ok and working without major issues, then
I'll update her phone's iOS. Plus, going backwards once you've updated is a pain
and usually not possible shortly after the new version is released.

Also, I don't update iOS until I've had time to update my macOS and Xcode as
well. Once you update iOS, you'll likely have to do matching updates to other
Apple software for Loop building...so might as make sure you successfully update
the other pieces so that everything is squared away.

## Will my Loop keep working if I don't update to iOS 13?

Yes. Your Loop app will work for one year after you built it (or until the
developer team's enrollment/signing certificate expires, whichever comes first).
So, if you don't update iOS...no big deal for your Loop app.

## Will my Loop keep working if I update to iOS 13?

Yes. We have not had one iOS update that has broken Loop apps already installed
on the phone. I think we started Loop on iOS 9? Loop has worked through all the
updates.

## Do I have to update my Loop if I change to iOS 13?

No. You don't have to.

## Is there a benefit to updating my Loop if I use iOS 13?

Nope. Unless you want to try dark mode which is in dev branch and being
developed there...that's about the only thing that is iOS 13 specific in Loop.

## Why is iOS update a big deal then?

Because iOS major releases (like going from iOS 12 to 13...where the whole
number changes) involve updates to several major other Apple-related things.
It's a cascade effect.

If you update iOS with a major release, then Xcode will need to update, too.
Because Xcode will need the new command tools, Swift language updates, and
simulators to be able to properly build for devices that have the new iOS.

And then the cascade continues...that new Xcode will likely require a macOS
update. And sometimes (as happened when Xcode 10 was released), the required
update to macOS was also a major update (High Sierra to Mojave) that some
computers couldn't do. They were "unsupported" by Apple and were aged-out.
Luckily, the update to Xcode 11 does not involve aging out any computers this
time. If you were running Xcode 10 already, you'll be able to update to Xcode 11
without fear that you'll be left out based on macOS age.

So, iOS updates are a big deal (for Loopers) because they involve needing to do
some updates to be able to properly build Loop again the next time you want to.
And people forget about updates. And then they forget about LoopDocs' page
specifically to help with Updating your Loop app. And so they just blindly
download and build like they did last time...unaware there were needed updates.

It's not so much about Loop when you update iOS...the issue is about what other
things you need to update BEFORE you build Loop again and AFTER you update iOS.

## What do I need to do to build now with iOS 13?

As of today, September 23rd...things are much easier:

!!!danger "Download Xcode 11 from the App store" If you downloaded Xcode 11 GM
previously, go to the App store and get the Xcode update waiting for you now.
Xcode 11 GM is not what you need anymore...you need to get Xcode 11 from the App
store.

!!!warning "Restart computer after updating Xcode" Make sure to restart your
computer after updating Xcode. There's a known issue that happens often enough
to be frustrating if you don't reboot. Either a build error about missing
simultors or a "device not connected" (even when phone is connected). Just
restart computer. It's easy enough.

!!!info "Use the Updating Loop app page in LoopDocs" Anytime you want to update
your Loop app (aka rebuild your Loop app), always start with the
[Updating Loop page](https://loopkit.github.io/loopdocs/build/updating/). That
page will have current info to help you get going with what the new minimums
are. Always start there. Is it possible there will be a slight delay in updating
that page? Yes, I'm human. I have kids, job, house, etc. so it might be slightly
delayed sometimes. But, generally during times like this when things are
important to update...I make sure the pages reflect that. I'll do my part...your
part is to check that page for current info.

!!!danger "CHECK BUILD ERRORS PAGE" If you get a build error...still check the
[Build Errors page](https://loopkit.github.io/loopdocs/build/build_errors/).
Because even if your exact error isn't there...the information you NEED to
provide when asking for help is listed out on that page. And that information is
critical. CRITICAL to be able to troubleshoot your build error.

## What if I don't have Xcode 11? Can I still build?

I cannot understand why you wouldn't update to Xcode 11 at this point..but since
you asked the answer depends on which version of iOS **AND** which branch of
Loop you are using. If you are using iOS 13, YES...in any branch of Loop you
want to build ever, you will need Xcode 11. If you are using dev branch, YES. No
matter what iOS you are using with dev branch, you'll need Xcode 11. Checkout
out this chart to find out specifically about your combination of ios/branch and
the needed Xcode minimum. (But really...just pull off the band-aid and install
Xcode 11 anyways.)

<p align="center">
<img src="../img/xcode11.png" width="650">
</p>
